---
title: Flunkyball Rules
authors: HaHüHo-Rulecommittee
date: 2021-09-06
version: v1.3
slug: "v1.3"
aliases:
  - "2021-06"
  - "2021"
  - "latest"
latest: true
pdf: "https://github.com/Hauptallee-Huegel-Homies/Flunkyball-Rules/releases/download/1.3-Final%2B2/en.pdf"
---
# Disambiguation

1. A _match_ is one whole game of Flunkyball.
2. A _lap_ is a throw from every player still remaining in the game.
3. A _decider_ is a minigame that results in a winner and a loser.
4. A _pitch_ is the area and markings where the _match_ is played.

# Team

1. The game is played by two teams.
2. A team consists of at least one player.
3. The teams may only differ one in size.

# Items

## Drinks

1. Each player needs at least one container holding a drink.
2. The contents of the container are to be agreed upon by the teams.
3. No agreement results in a _decider_, the winner choosing their own drinks,
   the loser may choose the same, or drinks, such that both teams have at least
   the same volume in total and all players drink at least the same relative
   alcohol content.

## Target

1. Any object that can be tipped over, however, does not tip over by itself, may
   be the _target_, agreed upon by the teams.
2. No agreement results in a _decider_, the winner choosing the _target_.

## Throwing Object

1. Any object can be the _throwing object_, however it must be agreed upon in
   advance.
2. Should it no longer be possible to reliably tip over the _target_ with the
   _throwing object_, and it is beyond repair, it can be exchanged for a newly
   agreed upon object.
3. No agreement results in a _decider_, the winner choosing the _throwing
   object_.

# Pitch

1. The _pitch_ consists of:
    1. The _centre_.
    2. The _circle_, around the _centre_ with the length of the shortest shoe of
       all players as diameter.
    3. The _beerlines_, which are equidistant from the centre, while parallel to
       each other.
2. The _pitch_ has to be agreed upon by both teams.
3. No agreement results in a _decider_, the winner choosing the _centre_ and
   _circle_ and the loser choosing the _beerlines_.

# Start

1. A team is either _Offence_ or _Defence_; If a team is _Offence_ the other is
   necessarily the _Defence_ and vice versa.
2. A _decider_ is played, the winner determines if they want to start as
   _Offence_ or choose side and start as _Defence_, the loser may choose side if
   the winner chose to start as _Offence_.

# Objective

1. The objective of the game is for the own team to finish before the other
   team.
2. A player is allowed finish at any time if their team is _Offence_ by proving
   that their drinking container is (quasi) empty, by holding the container
   upside down over their head.

# Phases

The game is played in turns --- consisting of two phases --- until the _match_
ends.

## Action Phase

1. All players have to remain behind their _beerlines_.
2. The containers may be repositioned, only by oneself, along the respective
   _beerline_, otherwise the containers must rest on the _beerline_.
3. One of the _Offence_'s players remaining in the game, who did not throw in
   this _lap_, throws the _throwing object_, such that at the time of release
   the _throwing object_ is above the elbow(s) of the players throwing arm(s).
4. Upon releasing the _throwing object_, the _Reaction Phase_ starts.

## Reaction Phase

1. The _Defence_ may step over their _beerline_.
2. The _Offence_ may start to drink if they successfully and legally used the
   _throwing object_ to tip over the _target_ or it was tipped over because of
   the _defence_.
3. Once the _target_ is repositioned within the _circle_, and all players of the
   _Defence_ return behind their _beerline_ they may signal the _Offence_ to
   stop. The _Offence_ must stop no later than then.
4. After all players are behind their _beerlines_ and the _throwing object_ is
   under the control of the _Defence_, the _Reaction Phase_ ends and the teams
   swap roles.

## Tiebreaker

1. If both teams do not hit the _target_ for two _laps_, the _beerlines_ may be
   moved towards the _centre_, twice the length of the shortest shoe of the
   players in the team.

# Penalties

1. It is the obligation of the other team to demand penalties themselves.
2. Teams may demand penalties until the start of their next throw.
3. Penalties can only occur self-inflicted or due to legal actions of the other
   team.
4. At the offending player's discretion they are allowed to choose a higher
   penalty.
5. Should a penalty no longer be possible, the next higher penalty is given.

## Minor

In the next _Action Phase_ with the offending party as _Offence_, the teams swap
roles without a throw attempt. The following actions result in a minor penalty:

1. Leaving the _pitch_, without unanimous vote of all remaining players.
2. Stepping in front of the _beerline_ as _Offence_, or during the _Action
   Phase_ as _Defence_.
3. Lifting the container too early during the _Reaction Phase_ as _Offence_.
4. Touching the container during the _Reaction Phase_ as _Defence_.
5. Touching someone else's drink.
6. The container tipping over without spilling drinks. The container has to be
   repositioned upright immediatly, without further penalties for touching the
   container.

## Major

The offending party must take an additional drink. The drink can be delegated to
exactly one member of the team, remaining or already finished. The following
actions result in a major penalty:

1. The container empties for any other reason than being drunk by the player.
2. The container is drank from, while the own team is not the _Offence_ or it is
   not the _Reaction Phase_.
3. The container is drank from, while the _target_ is still standing, or after
   the other team legally signaled to stop, or if the _target_ was not tipped
   over with a legal throw.
4. Spitting out drinks.
5. Puking.

## Severe

The offending party's team may no longer step over their _beerline_ in this
_match_. The following action results in a severe penalty:

1. Deliberately spilling drinks.
2. The container is drank from, despite not being in _Offence_ or outside of the
   _Reaction Phase_.
